this video is made possible by the
following cuties you can check out the
gear they provide for me in the
description below and as a final note I
think it's really important that we all
peer pressure Jimmy into taking this
around the Norwich lifer because well
that's going to be entertaining fine
Jesus Christ I'll do it I just wanted to
rest so yes thanks to Chris hey and his
goons as well as of course Gary the
person who made this mod here I am back
at the North sliver to do another hot
lap though to call this upcoming lap a
hot lap would probably be a little bit
incorrect so this is the now legendary
Auto Union type c from
1937. this car is almost as old as Chris
Haye himself which I find to be
ludicrous so I have to admit that
because of the age of his car I don't
really know that much about it this is
literally a pre-World War II race car
and as such it has pre-World War II
technology the engine for example is a
V16 you can see that by the eight
exhaust poking out this side there are
eight on the other side two peak power
out of about 500 horsepower so at 4
00 RPM so very talky very low down RPM
and apparently according to the Glorious
Wikipedia article that I read this thing
will spins at 100 miles per hour not
surprising given that it's on what are
effectively bicycle tires there at the
rear now I'm not sure if the brakes in
this thing are disc brakes or drum
brakes but given the performance
I'm gonna say they're probably drum
breaks you get up to speed very quickly
in this car but then you don't really
slow down it's almost like you're
driving on ice when you're trying to
slow down this car also from what I've
read had some very interesting funding
sources uh I won't say the word on
YouTube because it'll probably tick some
box which will get me banned but it does
rhyme with Yahtzee like most cars from
that time this is essentially just one
big metal tube full of the finest Rocket
Fuel you can buy so if you have a crash
you do the big combust so I can't even
imagine going you know what let's go 200
mile an hour that'll be safe well here
we are inside an 83 year old race car
this is quite crazy the amount of detail
in this cockpit as well Gary's just done
it again it looks so cool in here and
you really get a feel for just how
terrifying it would be to drive this
thing look no seat belt ma this car is
all about patience unfortunately for me
I have none so let's see how we go so
you'll notice I've got the speedo up on
the right hand here because this car has
no Speedo in it probably a good idea for
the sanity of the driver to be honest
you can get an idea of just how quick
this thing is and how crazy it is
especially for the time frame gearing's
been shortened a little bit so I can
actually use my gears but
down the first gear round
the corner and here we are then
a lap of the greenhouse in an auto Union
type to see hopefully we can get through
it in one piece already going far too
quick for T1 let's have to try and power
out of it
the only way to get rid of the
understood in this car is by inducing
power oversteer which also is scary
because you have no grip on that sort of
that part of the tire so use it to turn
and that's it through hatsun buck and
already you see just how Larry this
thing is
I'm trying to be nice and easy do a lot
of braking in this car with the engine
so I'll be going to first gear quite a
lot around here
there you go nice and soft for this
section it's all about just getting the
cart
uh the direction changer we're getting
it rotated on the throttle through this
section and trying to induce the side a
bit early now Gary said to me Gary is
the uh the maker of this mod that I need
to be very careful of the tires here
it's very easy to make them go pop if
you get them too hot from too much
sliding so that's something to keep in
mind as we slide around the corner now
watch a speedo down there that's in
kilometers an hour but 220 is 140 mile
an hour for you Americans and we've just
touched that coming up to the food place
we've got a hammer the brakes now down
to second gear
the small towns is okay but once you
start sliding when the grip is it's just
gone and there's no way you can really
correct it but then we get to really
unleash the V16 engine behind us I don't
look at the speed I'm trying to
concentrate on where I'm going that's
250ks in the clock 260 and we're going
to hit the brakes hard before the hump
here still on the brakes still on the
brakes second gear
again using the throttle just to help us
hug the corner there
and then down to First and you're just
seeing how big the braking zones are for
this car you think it weigh a lot more
than it does but these brakes are just
abysmal do not match the speed
whatsoever as what makes this car so
damn challenging to always have some
sort of Correction in the wheel going on
but
the mod and the feedback in the wheel
lets you understand what that needs to
be most of the time so you do okay Sim
racing Shuffle there on the Wheel
down the first gear again first get
using the engine to stop that I can't
really turn much harsher than that
because otherwise the car will start to
spin once you get past a certain angle
in this car it is goodbye so we're gonna
try and avoid that the best we can
and there you go
I love this massive kind of airplane
style rev counter in front of me here
growing a bit higher for a plane though
but still good
looks like I'm gonna just get on the
break super early use second gear
slow us down
you can actually be quite aggressive on
the curbs in this car but you have to
make sure the cars are really pointing
the way you want it to go before you hit
the curves otherwise
you'll have no chance of turning it at
that point
so much talk from this thing
they've actually shortened the gears
we're on a a shorter gear set because it
was geared for over 200 miles an hour
before we won't quite get that on the
back straight I don't think I guess I
hope not I'm not gonna be able to slow
down
I'll get in there
it's such a different experience around
this it's again a complete
exercise and patience
oh you can see what happens there once
the tires start to lose grip you just
slide laterally and then bad things
happen very quickly I'm on the brakes
heart down here and it's still not
slowing down come on
come on get it turned just about gonna
turn and that's a great indicator just
how bad this car handles at low speed
it's actually not as bad at high speeds
you can start inducing the size of it
but at low speed it really is just a
slug
you can first get through here
just trying to turn the corner as
smoothly as possible use the torque up a
hill before we go back down the first
kit
it's soft up here use a bit of the power
and then we go over to talk and just
look at the speedo just climbs like
it's just like that it's a it's crazy
this thing again I just can't imagine
driving this there's so many cars in the
simulation I think yeah maybe I could
give that a go and I'll be all right in
it in this sort of car or like they'll
just be the big fear and just be so
scared the entire time driving it
one of the uh the drivers of this car
back in the day was the original hand
stuck so I can't even imagine
the stories he told his kids are driving
this thing
so now this is where we get to really
use a talk of this type c up here
to stab the brakes in the way and just
to get the car turned now we can use the
power so much more
I don't know how to describe it's like a
balanced drive in this car
whereas F1 cars all about precisions and
like Snap movement so let's say snap
movements very precise movements this is
all about
balancing it's like standing on one foot
on a boat during a storm
and trying to stay afloat there you go
nice just about touching the grass there
and again we've got a break so early
I mean this is the sort of circuit I
couldn't really imagine this car driving
in real life it's a bit too twisty it
kind of likes to high speed stuff a bit
better
but I didn't love the high-speed stuff
the streamlined designed his bike is up
to 200 miles an hour some people get
confused of hour and top speed and don't
quite understand how it works but bases
are just down to drag and this car has
next to none of it apart from this big
windscreen here to protect the driver
somewhat
which again looks like some sort of
Target reticle which again I won't
I'll leave that alone I think I think
it's for the best
time the car in nice and let it just
slide out there you go you've got to
give it room this car
it's a very angry Harvest
angry and a bit confused
so you have to give it all the room at
once
and be very easy when you start to
accelerate see again I just turning a
bit too late there and I can understand
the result
you have to be so easy
with the movements and you see that just
a bit late turning in again and you have
to then deal the weight transfer at the
wrong point but with a man is usually a
really aggressive part of a circuit we
just attack the curves here it's just
try and survive the curves pull out the
power there and you can see the wheels
spinning as I just about planted in a
straight line just about
now this downhill section here is where
this car is at its worse when you're
coming downhill
we've got gravity against you and you're
trying to turn the car in this
right-hander is the worst car worst
caught on a circuit for this car because
you should start turning in you get on
the throttle and suddenly
the car wants to overseer and exit
imagine being Auto Addiction right
imagine you're sitting there with your
camera trains on YouTube corner and you
see a type c come through
and it bins it gets driven by some rich
man
easy
so you think do we want using first here
we use first I'm just gonna we'll spin
so I managed to use the torque
and let it Grumble its way out the
corner
oh no that was scary this is this is why
I absolutely adore Sim racing right I
get you know I get the opportunity to
it's actually in VR as well to try out a
car from before the second World War
and understand its characteristics I get
an idea of how we're driven
what needs to be done to drive it well
that's something you just can't get by
watching TV and watching videos you get
to immerse yourself in this little world
for a couple of minutes and it really is
awesome confirm here now this car starts
coming alive in for a gear but you have
to be up to speed of course to use it
we only want to get a couple of chances
to use it and one of that is coming up
right now we've got the long long back
straight here where we get to just let
this thing run away and it run away it
does
second Carousel can actually get this
usually I missed this one practicing
because I can't understand
go on go go second gear is so far from
first and you can't change up the gear
by the way this is how it is
such a difficult challenge I'm not gonna
know my lap time really uh until
afterwards because I didn't check my lap
time when coming across the start Finish
Line
so I'm gonna have to put that on the
screen off because if I show you it's
not going to be that quick I'll be
impressed if it can beat the AE86 around
here which it should do it should do
anyway
there's third gear there's 140 mile an
hour past easily
getting up to 260ks we're in Top Gear
now fourth gear
pretty sure we haven't got a fifth so
we've got a fifth just checking
and that in the car just do its thing
four and a half thousand RPM from the
V16 behind us 290 K's nearly 300
kilometers an hour
oh God this is gonna be scary tipping in
on the throttle to rotate the car a bit
and now I've got to be on the brakes
just from now
down to third still breaking a little
bit of throttle there just to tie this
over still breaking
oh and we just about to make the corner
this thing is an absolute experience a
terrifying one but one you should
definitely try out to free Modern race
Department from Gary it's awesome give
it a go 1037 shows on the clock there
I'm gonna guess I was probably around a
9 30 lap time so not awful but the thing
again I'll Flash the proper time once on
screen now if you guys can see but
as I said before getting to drive this
car
in a Sim I'm going to drive it in VR is
awesome you should give it a go it I
like to try and drive cars on the
channel That I think are are fun or
different or enjoyable and most
importantly accessible this is all of
those things put together there
um and also probably the hardest car
I've ever driven around this circuit
it's just one small mistake and you have
about five ten minutes to ponder your
life while you're sailing into a wall
very slowly but that's the fun of it
anyway guys I really hope you enjoyed
this video this is really awesome to
drive the mod link will be in the
description if you want to give it a go
yourselves again big shout out to Gary
for yet another awesome mod and also to
to Chris Haye for the challenge thank
you Chris love you not really though
and if you guys did enjoy the video then
I'd very much appreciate it if you hit
the like button and if you want to see
more stuff like this then feel free to
subscribe and hit that Bell icon as well
because that way you might actually see
the videos when they're released who
knows
um massive thank you to my patrons and
sponsors thank you for supporting the
channel and allow me to do stuff like
this every day because it's it's awesome
it really is take care have an awesome
day
see you all next time
[Music]
thank you